Hi, my name is Marie Reinsborough-Wadden,
and I'm the school counselor here
at Marshview Middle School.
Today I'd like to share with you
an example
of sustaining to embed school
community relationship building
as a hallmark of the school's culture
and mission.
Specifically, I'd like to talk about
our wonderful mentorship program
that we have established.
Again, we're really fortunate
because Sackville is
right beside Mount Allison University,
so there's a natural partnership there.
We have many programs that involve Miles
and professors and students.
We're very,
very grateful for that connection.
So this program
specifically started a few years ago
when we had one of our students who
I would lovingly use the term misfit with.
They just couldn't
find their place to belong and connect.
find their people at Mercer.
So we had a brilliant idea to connect them
with a man, Allison's football player.
And so it was just a natural,
instant relationship.
And so we saw attendance really went up.
The student was attending more at school,
being more present, being more involved,
and would even like
actively celebrate
that they had made this connection.
So then we started to dream about what
that could look like on a more macro
scale, not just with this one
individual relationship.
So we started off the program
where we pair our students and we
we look for students
who may be similar to that initial spark,
who maybe haven't found their space
like that connection belonging
piece is not the way
that we would hope for them.
And one way that I do that is
I do like a grade five interview survey.
So as our students first enter the school,
I spend time with each one of them,
which takes a lot of my time, but it's
the most worthwhile, beneficial process.
So I get to know them
and I get to learn all about them.
And I one of
the questions that I asked them
is, is there like a trusted adult
in your life that you feel a connection
with at home or at school?
And oftentimes not oftentimes
most of the time we're good to go,
but sometimes I'll have students
who just cannot think of an example
of a connection that they have.
And from a school counselor piece,
we know that long term mental health
really is
benefited by having those connections
in early years with strong, healthy adults
that don't have to be
from your family, right?
So knowing that
and having those grade five interviews
and seeing the success of that first try,
we decided to grow the program.
And so now we have several students.
I think our numbers were about 30
this year
who are paired with mentors and students.
So our Mounties come in,
our mentors come in once a week
and they get to just be celebrities
in our building.
So they walk in the halls
and everyone basically cheers to see them.
It's a chance for our students to hang out
so we don't put curricular
expectations on them.
We don't have them.
You know, it's not punitive.
There's no expectations.
It's really just about spending time
with like a trusted adult
that you feel comfortable with.
And it is amazing.
And so we've seen spikes in attendance
based on this as well too.
So our students
who sometimes struggle to come sometimes
will only come that day when so which
I think is indicative of a great program.
So yeah, it's been really wonderful
if I think of like tips or, or reflections
or ways to kind of what I dream
for this program, I'd love to expand it.
I think it's so worthwhile.
Again, it's a lot of work in the get
go to set up the process in the system,
but now kind of runs itself and the piece.
So there's so many pieces
that I want to celebrate.
But one part that I really think
is valuable and really important to note
is that there's not any stigma around it.
So we know why we're choosing
certain students of our middle school.
But the students don't see that part.
They they have friends who are asking,
why can't I be a part of it?
Can I get in next year?
How do I sign up for this?
Right,
so we have a little bit of an informal
waitlist of students
who want to be part of this program,
which I think is indicative
that it's working really well, too.
Yeah.